Rework of list tutorial step 1 and 2 (#62)
BioPhoton/rx-angular: apps/state-demo/src/app/examples/demo-basics/2/Readme.md

# Handing Side Effects reactively

This section is targeting the concept of side effects, and it's reactive handling.

> Let's first quickly discuss 2 vocabularies, "side effect" is, and "pure function".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's first quickly define two terms, "side effect" & "pure function".
```

**Pure function:**
A function is called pure if:
Its return value is the same for the same arguments e.g. `function add(a, b) { return a + b}`.
Its executed internal logic has no side effects

**Side Effect:**
A function has a "side-effect" if:

- Mutation of local static variables are done e.g. `this.prop = value`
- non-local variables are used

```typescript
let state = true;
sideEffectFn();

function sideEffectFn() {
  state = true;
}
```

- mutable reference arguments get passed

```typescript
let state = { isVisible: false };
let newState = sideEffectFn(state);

function sideEffectFn(oldState) {
  oldState.isVisible = true;
  return oldState;
}
```

- I/O is changed

```typescript
let state = { isVisible: false };
sideEffectFn(state);

function sideEffectFn(state) {
  console.log(state);
  // or
  this.render(state);
}
```

> As a good rule of thumb, you can consider every function without a return value as side.-ffect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a good rule of thumb, you can consider every function without a return value as side-effect
```

A side-effect has 2 important parts:

- the trigger
- the side-effecting logic

> In the above examples the trigger was the method call itself, but we can also see en emitted value form an `Observable` as trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the above examples the trigger was the method call itself, but we can also set an emitted value form an `Observable` as trigger.
```

> This side-effec logic is a render call or any other logic executed by the trigger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This side-effect logic is a render call or any other logic executed by the trigger.
```

With this in mind let's take a look at the component logic and see if we can identify a side effect:

In the `ngOnInit` we initialize a background process over `resetRefreshTick`.

```typescript
  ngOnInit(): void {
    this.resetRefreshTick();
  }
```

> It is also reset whenever the input binding for `refreshInterval` changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The interval also gets reset whenever the input binding for `refreshInterval` changes.
```

```typescript
   @Input()
    set refreshInterval(refreshInterval: number) {
      if (refreshInterval > 100) {
        this.set({ refreshInterval });
        this.resetRefreshTick()
      }
    }
```

Another side-effect is contained in the `onRefreshClicks` callback. Here we dispatch an action to the global store.

```typescript
  onRefreshClicks(event) {
    this.listService.refetchList();
  }
```

Lets refactore those and handle them in a clean and reactiv way.

1. Refactor to a reactive UI

As RxJS is providing us a very powerful way of composing the emitted events we will refactor oue UI interaction the streams.

UI interaction in general can come from buttons, inputs, forms, scroll or resize events etc.

In our case we have the refresh button as UI interaction. To get its interaction as `Observable` we create a `Subject` in the component class and fire its `next` method on every button click.

```html
<button mat-raised-button color="primary" (click)="refreshClicks.next($event)">
  Refresh List
</button>
```

```typescript
export class DemoBasicsComponent2 extends RxState<ComponentState>
  implements OnInit, OnDestroy {
  refreshClicks = new Subject<Event>();
  //...
}
```

> 2. Setup a variable to store the side-effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setup the store side-effect
```

In out class we create a new property called `refreshListSideEffect$` and assing the newly created click Observable to is.

```typescript
refreshListSideEffect$ = this.refreshClick$;
```

This is the trigger for our side-effect.

From the `resetRefreshTick` method we now move the logic that starts the tick and place it in the `pipe` method of `this.refreshClick$`.

```typescript
refreshListSideEffect$ = this.refreshClick$.pipe(
  tap(() => this.listService.refetchList())
);
```

> 3. Initialize the side effect by leveraging the `hold` method of `RxState` in the constructor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `hold` the side-effect
```

`hold` as the name implies "holds" something. It holds a subscription to a side effect and takes care of its initialisation.
Furthermore, it automatically handles the subscription management and unsubscribes if the component gets destroyed.

```typescript
constructor(...) {
  this.hold(refreshListSideEffect$);
}
```

This should dispatch an action on every button click.

> 4. Refactor the side-effect triggered by the background process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Refactor background process side-effect
```

> # Handing Side Effects reactively

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Handling Side Effects reactively
```
